- Catherine Ines, welcome to Talk Python to Me.
- Hey, hi Michael.
- It's great to be back.
- Yeah, it's great to have you here.
Ines, you've been here a bunch of times.
Catherine, have I had you on before?
- Yeah, I think so.
A while ago now. - I think so as well,
but it's been a really long time, hasn't it?
- Yeah, yeah.
- Yeah, well, it's great to have you back.
I feel like this is a very Berlin-focused podcast today.
(laughing)
unrelated, both of you happen to be there. So that's really cool. Thank you for taking time out of your evening to be part of the show.
Yeah. All right. Well, we're going to talk about machine learning, some of the rules and regulations come coming around there, especially in
Europe, we're going to talk about fairness, we're going to talk even a little bit about interesting indirect implications like Google, or
and how to go GitHub Copilot and these types of things.
We'll sort of go through the whole ML space
and talk about some of these ideas.
But you both are doing very interesting things
in the machine learning space.
Let's sort of just get a little bit of your background.
Catherine, tell people a bit
about what you're doing these days.
- Yeah, I'm here in Berlin and focused on
how do we think about data privacy
and data security concerns in machine learning.
So for the past five years, I've worked on the space of
how do we think about problems like anonymization,
differential privacy, as well as how do we think about
solutions like encrypted learning and building ways
that we can learn from encrypted data.
So it's been really fun and I'm excited,
but first to publicly announce here
that I'll be joining ThoughtWorks in January.
- Yeah, that's awesome.
- Yeah, as a principal data scientist,
their focus exactly on this problem,
which they've been noticing here in Europe is,
how do we think about data privacy
and data security problems
when we think about machine learning?
It's a growing concern, so it should be pretty exciting.
- Yeah, a company like ThoughtWorks
is one of these companies that works
with other companies a lot,
and it's sort of this consulting side of things.
And I feel like you can have a pretty wide-ranging impact
through those channels.
- Yeah, yeah.
- Yeah, do you think that being in Germany,
there's more focus on these kinds of things in Europe,
but especially in Germany, it seems like,
than a pair, like say in the US?
Does the US have more of a YOLO attitude towards privacy
and machine learning stuff?
- Yeah, I mean, I think just from a regulatory aspect,
since we saw passage of the GDPR,
which is the big European privacy law in 2018,
that it went into effect.
We definitely saw kind of a growing trend here in Europe.
Overall, I would say like actually France
and the Netherlands have done quite a lot of good work,
even Ireland at questioning, let's say larger tech usage.
But the activism, I would say on the ground activism
here in Germany from the chaos communication club
and other types of activists that are here
has been quite strong, which is exciting to see.
And therefore, I think Leeds kind of ends up
being in the headlines maybe a bit more internationally.
- Also actually a fun fact that the story
I always like to tell Americans is that like,
if you go on Google Street View here in Berlin,
it's an awesome, I don't know,
kind of, it's the day to day,
it's like over 10 years old now.
So you can be there, and Berlin's heavily genderfied now.
So you can really see, wow, how did my neighborhood look
10, 12 years ago, because Google did it once,
they never came back because everyone wanted their buildings
pixelated, and they were like, okay, fuck this.
Germany is too difficult.
We're never gonna send our cars through here again.
So, you know, I definitely encourage you
to use Google Street View in Berlin.
It's really fun from like the historical perspective.
- How funny, yeah.
So you can go and basically say,
I want my house fuzzed out
so you can't see details about my personal business.
- Yeah, and a lot of buildings will look like that.
- Yeah, yeah.
- Yeah, if I went to my place on Google Maps,
you can see it evolve over time.
And I go, that was when I still had that other car
before it broke down or crashed or whatever.
And I could sort of judge how old the pictures are by,
you know, is it, what season is it?
What's in the driveway or what's the porch look like?
What kind of, you know, chairs do we have?
There's all sorts of detail.
Like none of it's obscured, right?
There's a fun fact that some researchers worked on in the US
of could they do the census just via Google Street View?
And they found there was a heavy correlation
between census data and the makes of cars
that people had in their driveway.
So--
Oh my goodness.
Whoa.
It's a good-- it's an interesting paper.
Yeah, I think actually Timnit Gebru might have been
on that paper as well, the kind of very well-known machine
learning ethics researcher who's now
running her own organization in the space.
Anyways, it's a really cool paper.
I'll see if I can find it and send it to you
for the show notes.
- Yeah, put it in the show notes, awesome.
All right, well, congratulations on the ThoughtWorks thing.
That's really cool.
Ines, how about you tell people about yourself as well?
It's been almost a year, I think,
maybe since I had you on Talk Python.
- Yeah, I think it was the year in review.
I was in Australia at the time.
It was summer.
Now I'm in Berlin, now it's winter.
- Cool, yeah.
But yeah, I'm still the co-founder of Explosion.
We're probably most known for our open source library,
spaCy, which is an open source library
for natural language processing.
And one of the main things people do with our stack
is build NLP and machine learning applications.
We also publish an annotation tool called Prodigy,
which allows creating training data
for machine learning models.
And all our work and everything we do
is very focused on running things on your own hardware,
data privacy, and that's also something that's very important
and something that we see our users and customers do.
So people want to train their own models
and then actually think about how do I create my data?
What do I do to make my model good?
What do I do to make my application work?
And so this all ties in quite well with other questions
about like, okay, what should I do?
How should I reason about my data?
Which we also see as a very, very important point.
And I actually think this can even prevent a lot of problems
that we see if you actually just look at your data,
think about what do I want my system and my pipeline to do,
how do I break down my problem.
And that's exactly what the tools we're building
are hopefully helping people to do.
Yeah, fantastic.
So you have a spacey, and then you have some--
that's the open source thing.
You also have some products on top of that, right?
Yeah, exactly.
So we have a Prodigy, if you scroll down a bit here,
you're pulling up the page.
Yeah, exactly, Prodigy, that's an annotation tool.
And we're currently working on an extension for it
that it's a bit more like a SaaS cloud tool,
but has a private cloud aspect.
So you can bring your own hardware,
you can run your code, your data on your own cloud resources.
So no data, nothing has to leave your service.
And that's something that people already find
very appealing about Prodigy.
You can just download it, run it.
It doesn't send anything across over the internet.
- I really love that you all are.
Yeah, I love that you all are embracing that
because there's such, we'll get into this later,
not the first topic, but it's related.
So I'll just talk a bit about it.
I really like that you're not sending
the people's data back
because if they're gonna trust your tools,
they need to know that you're not sharing data
that is either part of their competitive advantage
or they have to protect for privacy reasons.
I recently started, got into the GitHub Copilot trial
and I installed that and it said,
or preview, whatever it's called,
and they said, "Oh, you just have to accept this agreement
"where it says, if you generate code from us,
"we're gonna get some analytics."
I'm like, "All right, that's fine."
Whatever, I ask it how to connect to SQLAlchemy
'cause I forgot, it'll just tell me.
Oh, and if you make any edits, we're gonna send those back.
Wait a minute, what if one of the edits
is put my AWS access key in there
'cause it needs to be there
or for a little not thing that I'm gonna publish,
but it's still going back, right?
So there's a lot of things and I've just uninstalled them.
I'm like, you know what?
No, this is just too much to risk
or too little benefit for me in my world.
- Yeah, I think we also see a lot of it
is also kind of pointless.
I think there used to be this idea that like,
Oh, you can just like collect all the data.
And then at some point you can do some magical AI with it.
And I think for years, this used to be the classic pitch of every startup.
Like, I don't know.
It's almost used to be what we work pitched in some weird way.
It's usually like, oh, we do X and then we collect data and then it's dot, dot,
dot, and then it's AI and then it's profit.
Um, and that, that used to be people like map out their business plan.
I think this has changed a bit, but I think you can still see some of the
where companies are like,
oh, we might as well get as much data as possible
because maybe there's something we can do with it.
And we've always seen working in the field
that like, nah, I don't want new annotations.
Like there's literally no advantage I get from that.
So I might as well set up the tools
so that you can keep them.
- That's perfect.
And Catherine, Mr. Hypermagnetic says,
hi, I thought KJM and Stan was a hip new tech stack.
(all laughing)
- No, it's my company name.
So yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
So it's like a good inside joke
that lives on many, many decades later.
- I love it.
All right, well, let's kick things off with some regulation
and then we can go and talk more about
maybe some other laws we can talk about,
things like co-pilot and other stuff.
But I did say this was a European focused,
at least kickoff to the show here.
So I think one of the biggest tech stories out of the EU
in the last couple of years has got to be GDPR, right?
Like that's, I still heard just yesterday
people talking about, well, this is because of GDPR
and because we're doing that and this company is not, right?
There's still just so much awareness of privacy
because of GDPR.
And I do think there are some benefits
and I think there are some drawbacks to it
but it certainly is making a difference, right?
And so now there's something that might be sort of an equivalent on the AI side of things, right?
I mean, not exactly the same, but that kind of regulation.
Yeah, yeah, it's interesting because it's been a work in progress for some years, like the GDPR was.
So the initial talks for the GDPR started, I think, in like 2014, 2015, didn't get written until 2016, went into effect in 2018.
and still a topic of conversation now many years later.
This is some pluses, some minuses, right?
We can talk about how GDPR was intended
versus how we've seen it rolled out across the web,
which is quite different than what was intended, obviously.
- I think that's always a problem
with a lot of regulations and the EU in general.
You see, like, I'm very pro-regulation.
I think the idea of GDPR is great,
But of course, once a large organization like the EU
rolls things out, it can go a bit wrong here and there.
Well, let me just set a little foundation
about why I sort of said I think there are some negatives.
I think the privacy stuff is all great.
I think the ability to export your data is great.
The ability to have it erased, to know what's being done,
these are all good things.
I feel, though, that it disproportionately
was difficult for small businesses,
but was aimed at places like Facebook and Google and stuff.
So for example, for like my courses and stuff,
I had to stop doing anything else for almost two weeks
and rewrite a whole bunch of different things
to make, to comply to the best of my knowledge,
I'm doing it right, but who knows?
Whereas Facebook didn't shut down for two weeks.
- Yeah, well, no, they had quite a bit of--
- Only as a percentage, only as a percentage
of total employees, I mean small.
- But they actually had to shut down several products
that are no longer available in Europe
that are available in other jurisdictions.
And also when we look at who's been fined,
it's been predominantly the FANGs and other large--
- Yeah, I do think the enforcement
is focused on the FANG side of things, yeah.
- Yeah, so-- - Which is fair.
- It's like, you know, we're not gonna be
- Yeah, so it's like, you know,
which is basically what most folks said
when it went into enforcement is like,
yes, we believe these are things
that everybody should be doing
to better look after the security of sensitive data,
regardless of, you know, the provenance, so to speak.
But also we intend to employ this legislation
to look after these problems, right?
And everything that Max Scrums has been doing,
he's based here in Germany
He's been filing quite a lot of amazing lawsuits
against a variety of the things
and been getting some interesting rulings,
let's say from the European courts.
- Yeah, good.
Ines, how was the GPR for you
before we get to the next law?
- Yeah, I mean--
- Explosion, was it a big deal?
- Not so much because I think actually already
our standards were such that like,
We weren't really doing anything that was violating or intended to violate
what then became GDPR.
Like I think it was just, we had to go through some things to make, I don't
know, we've always intended to not have any cookies on our sites.
So we don't, in the first place.
And then, it's actually a lot of work to like, make sure that like nothing you
use tries to sneak some cookies in there.
And then you're like, ah, I used the wrong URL here.
Now I have all these YouTube cookies again.
But I think in general, we were already,
even before it came up, or before GDPR really came out,
we realized that, oh, we're actually pretty compliant,
or at least we already aim to be compliant,
so we didn't have to do very much.
- I think I was too, in terms of principle,
but not exactly in practice.
There were those types of things.
Like, for example, I have the discuss comment section
at the bottom of all the pages.
And then I realized they were putting double-click cookies
and Facebook cookies and all sorts of stuff.
I'm like, wait a minute, I don't want people
who come to my page to get that,
but I'm not trying to use it.
It's like this cascading chain
and yeah, like embedding YouTube videos.
We go to a lot of work to make sure
that it doesn't actually embed YouTube.
It does a thing that then allows you
to get to the YouTube without the, yeah.
Anyway, it's like that kind of stuff, right?
But still, I think it's good.
I think it's pretty good in general.
But let's talk about machine learning and AI stuff.
So I pulled out some highlights here.
Let me maybe throw them out, and you all can react to them.
So we've got this article on techmonitor.ai called
"The EU's Leaked AI Regulation is Ambitious
but Disappointingly Vague.
New Rules for AI in Europe are Simultaneously
Bold and Underwhelming."
I think they interviewed different people
who probably have those opinions,
as you could see through the article.
It's not the same person necessarily
that holds both those at once.
So this is leaked, but this was leaked in April 15th
of this year, and I think seven days later or something,
the actual thing was published.
So it's not so much about the leak,
just that the article kind of covers the details, right?
This is still not unknown, is it?
- No, no, no, the full text is available
there's been a lot of good kind of deeper analysis from variety perspectives.
Yeah.
So, Catherine, you want to give us a quick summary of what the goal of this is?
So I think, I mean, when I first got wind that this was going to be happening, I was
talking with some folks at the Bundesministerium Intern, which is basically the
Intern German administration here.
So think of like the, if we had a, in the U S sorry, U S centric in the U S, if we
had like an office of Homeland Security and the interior, and they were all
together and they like also did like FTC like things, that's what it would be.
Anyways.
So, and they have a group called the Dutton Ethic Commission, which
is data ethics commission.
And they had built several large reports on thinking and analyzing about the
risk of algorithmic-based systems and algorithmic-based decision making, which has been a topic of
conversation obviously for a long time. Eventually all of that what I found out was that they were
talking then with other groups in the EU about forming a regulation like this and if anybody
wants to read the German Datten Ethic Commission report, which also is available in English,
you can see that a lot of the ideas are kind of taken and transferred there, which is basically
like when we think about AI systems, can we analyze the level of risk that they would have,
let's say, in use in society? So you can think of very high risk being like bombing people and
very low risk like, people like drones or, or self-flying planes or absolutely. I mean,
I mean, we have drones that bomb people.
That's the thing that happens in the world.
But what is less common is that you just send the drone out
and say, go find the quote bad people
and take care of them, right?
There's still usually a person somewhere
that makes a decision.
And so, I mean, I don't think we want a world
where we just send out robots to take care of stuff.
- I think some people want that
because it can be very nice to absolve yourself
of that responsibility.
You're the one pressing the button,
you have to answer for that,
and you have to take accountability.
If the machine did that, well, I mean,
it's kind of like this problem of, okay,
whose fault is it if a self-driving car kills a pedestrian?
- Yeah, that's true.
- There's a really great psychological theorem
around that too, called the moral crumple zone,
which is basically talks about how the nearest human
to an automated system gets blamed.
So, yeah.
So, you know, it's like, well, why don't you do something?
I don't know, the computer said yes.
So, you know, it's interesting psychology
that we use to like judge people.
Like you should have done something.
- Yeah, and I do think actually
in the self-driving car example,
I think a lot of people would actually say,
yeah, the developer who built that system
that made the decision to drive forward and not stop
is to blame.
So, you know, that does check out, yeah.
- It could be, I really like the crumple zone analogy.
I don't know if I'm receiving it correctly,
but you know, if you're in a car crash,
like the radiator is gonna get smashed straight away.
Like that's the first thing when it caves in,
but the driver back in the middle
might be the one who did it.
In the software world, maybe the equivalent is,
yeah, the developer made that choice,
but they made that choice 'cause the CEO and the manager
said, we're optimizing for this and we don't care.
We want to ship faster or we want to make sure
this scenario is perfect.
And they're like, you know what, that's gonna have a problem
when it gets snowy and we can't see this line.
Like, you know what, this is what we're aiming for.
And like, they don't necessarily make them do it,
but they say, this is really where you gotta go.
So CrumpleZone, I like it.
- Yeah, yeah, and actually I think that just to make it
clear, the CrumpleZone was like that the driver
would get blamed rather than the company
that produced the software.
And so like, or the operator of the radiology machine
would get blamed like rather than the producers
because you kind of create this like trust,
inherent trust, like, well, you know,
like they're building a self-driving car,
clearly it's not their fault, it's the driver's fault.
Why weren't you paying attention or something like this?
Right?
- Yeah. - Yeah.
- Yeah, absolutely.
So, really quickly, I just wanna say,
None of us are lawyers.
So don't take any of this advice and go do legal things.
Talk to real lawyers.
But I do want to talk about the law.
So one of the things the article points out
is these rules apply to EU companies and those
that operate in the EU.
And then what is way more broadly for tech companies
or impact EU citizens, right?
So if you have a website and EU citizens use it,
or you have an app and EU citizens use your API
and it makes decisions, probably this applies to you as well.
I'm guessing.
We'll see in practice how it gets rolled out.
But yeah, it's always about the case law afterwards.
But in theory, yes.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
And it's mainly about the documenting risk, is I guess what I would say.
Like documenting and addressing risks.
So one interesting thing about it, and I'd be curious to hear both of y'all's thoughts
around it is kind of bringing to the forefront the idea of auditing AI systems and what should
be done to better audit and document problems in automated systems like AI systems or machine
learning systems. That I find quite interesting. Would be curious to hear y'all's take.
Yeah, I mean I think even fundamentally I think that's also something I pointed out in the article
is that there's already this problem of how do you even define where an AI system starts,
where it ends, what is the system, is it just a component, is it the model, but by itself the
same model can be used in all kinds of different use cases and some of them can be bad and some of
them can be good, so it has to be the larger component. But then also even where does AI
really start, you could have a role-based system that does the exact same thing,
Is that exempt for even if the outcomes are pretty much identical?
I think that's already where it gets pretty problematic.
And where I think you'll probably see a lot of people being able to get away with things.
Yeah, the law seems to try to characterize the behavior of the software rather than the
implementation or the technology of it. It doesn't say when a neural network comes up with an outcome
or something along those lines.
And they talked about how the idea is to try to make it
more long-lived and more broadly applicable,
but also that could result in ways to sneak around it.
Technically, it's still doing what the law's trying to cover
but somehow we built software that doesn't quite line up.
- Yeah, and actually to get back to this auditing question,
I do think this is, it's definitely
a very interesting part of it.
and I do think that it also shows that stuff like interpretability
will become much more relevant and interesting,
or even more relevant going forward,
because I do think if we end up with laws like that,
companies will have to be able to either just explain internally
why did my system make a certain decision,
or maybe even this has to be communicated to the user,
or to citizen in a similar way of how with GDPR
you can request your data, maybe you can be able to request more information on why a
certain outcome was produced for you or which features of you the system is using.
And I think that all that does require, you know.
Sure.
The feature seems completely doable.
It seems entirely reasonable to say, well, we used your age, your gender and your income
and your education level to make this decision.
I think maybe more tricky is why did it make a decision?
I mean, you two know better than I do,
but it seems really, I can sit down and read code
and say, well, there's an if statement
that if this number is greater than this, we do that.
But it's really hard to do that with neural networks, right?
- Yeah, machine learning gets tricky
because machine learning is always code and data.
And yeah, so it's kind of, it's this software 2.0 idea
where even testing a system is much more difficult.
Like if you're just writing straightforward
Python code, you can then write a test and you can say, oh, if this goes in, this should
come out.
And if that's true, then yeah, you have a green test.
And then...
Yeah, exactly.
But I mean, it kind of is a testament to the fact that we don't really test machine learning
systems today very well.
Like we have very early in the whole ML ops side of the equation.
And I think one of the things, so first off is a lot of these audits, people think they're
going to be self-assessments.
leave that to question mark of how a self-assessment is going to work at any
type of scale. But then also they put forward one thing that I really
liked about this law is they actually put forward things that people should be
testing for like security of the models, like the privacy of the models, like the
interpretability of the models and so forth. And I would say that most places
that are throwing machine learning into production today do not test for any of
those things before.
No, I think it's mostly like, oh, some accuracy score and then maybe some feedback from users.
Does it seem like a reasonable outcome?
Okay, good.
It's working.
Yeah.
And I think that there's also a lot of, you know, we see this kind of disconnect if you
go from academia to industry where like, you know, you can't, like academia works differently.
You have very different objectives and that's great.
You're trying to explore new algorithms.
You're trying to solve problems that are really hard and then see what works best on them.
you know, a brand different technical solutions.
And in industry, you're actually shipping something
that affects people.
And yeah, if you just apply the exact same metrics,
that's, you know, that's just not enough.
- What do you think about testing by coming up with
scenarios that should pass or not pass?
For example, if you're testing some kind of algorithm
that says yes or no on a mortgage for a house or something like that, just say, "Look, okay,
I would expect that a single mom would still be able to get a mortgage. So let's have a single
mom apply to the model and see what..." You come up with these scenarios, but if it fails any of
these, it's unfair. Try to give an example. Is it possible? I mean, I don't want to call it cute.
it's a very idealistic view and that's all very nice but I do think I think I personally I see
two problems with this one is that a lot of AI systems are usually quite different not everything
is as straightforward as like oh I have a pipeline here that predicts whether you should get a
mortgage it's often like lots of different components every company tries to solve very
very different problems so you can't like easily develop a framework where you have one input and
one output usually predicting the thing is one tiny part of a much larger application and then also
okay if you have like you know things like oh should someone get a mortgage, should a private
company give you a mortgage or not, I think a lot of you know companies would find that oh maybe
it's up to us whether you know you get a mortgage or not, there's no you know there's no general
framework for and you know maybe with a mortgage it's a bit different but there are so many
applications where yes you can say it's really unfair but it's still you know within the round
of what a company would argue is up to their discretion.
And I'm not defending that.
I'm just saying it's very, very difficult to say, oh, you're being unfair.
- This is not as important as my example.
- At least in the US, there's actually laws for this,
so like equal treatment or disparate treatment, we would say.
So there's actual mathematical, it's a statistical relationship,
like 70, 70, 30 or 80, 20, I think that you can show that there's disparate treatment. So for
example, if you could prove that there's that much of a difference if you're a single mother,
let's say, versus other groups, and you actually have a legal court case, you can take the bank
to court and you can sue them. So there's some precedence for equal treatment, at least in some
countries and some jurisdictions. And I think from, but from thinking about the mathematical
problem of fairness. I mean, in all of the research that a lot of really amazing, intelligent
researchers have done is they've shown that fairness definitions and the choice of fairness
and how you define it can actually be mathematically diametrically opposed. So depending on what
definition you choose, and there's a whole bunch. So Arvind Narayanan and his group in
the US have been doing a ton of research on this. There's a bunch of folks that have been
doing research for more than a decade on this.
All the fat ML people, the fairness, accountability, and transparency and ML
conferences that run every year have been doing again, two decades,
nearly of research on this stuff.
But it's not a solved problem.
Even if let's say you choose a fairness definition, mathematically, you measure
the model, you have met that requirement.
It doesn't mean that the actually what you're trying to show in the world or
or what you're trying to do in the world
from like how we humans would define fairness
is what you've met, right?
So yeah.
- Statistics and intuition are not necessarily the same
for sure.
Catherine, you had an interesting comment
about fairness is not the only metric
before we started recording.
- Oh yeah.
Yeah, I mean, the question that I like to ask people
is let's say you're building a computer vision system
to identify people and bomb the right targets.
If you said it performed fairly,
let's say in relation to gender
or in relation to skin color,
to the darkness of your skin color,
would that be an ethical or fair system?
- Yeah.
It's hard.
It's certainly not an easy answer.
- Yeah.
- That's it.
- There's more to it.
So one of the things that's interesting about this law
is that it talks about high risk AI systems
and it refers to those pretty frequently through there.
So high risk AI systems include those
used to manipulate human behavior,
conduct social scoring or for indiscriminate surveillance.
Those are actually banned in the EU
according to this law, right?
- And I guess you could almost read,
Like you can read who this was written for
and who they had in mind when they wrote that.
I think it's quite clear what types of applications
and what types of companies.
- Yeah.
- The social scoring stuff is really creepy.
But yeah, indiscriminate surveillance also.
And then it also talks about how special authorization
will be required for remote biometric identification.
This is, I'm guessing, types of biometric identification
that you don't actively participate in, right?
You don't put your fingerprint on something,
but you just happen to be there.
They call out specifically facial recognition,
but I've also heard things like gait,
the way that you walk, and weird stuff like that.
So it's not being special authorization will be required.
- Oh, you're typing too, right?
- Your typing pattern is quite,
or is more unique than you think.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
- Yeah, actually, even more sort of old school fingerprinting
I'm always like amazed at what like can be done
to like uniquely identify you on the internet
even without having any personal identifiable information.
Yeah.
- Another thing that stood out to me I thought was fun
is that people have to be told,
when they're interacting with an AI system.
So you have to explicitly say,
hey, this thing that you're talking through here,
this one, you're not talking to a human right now,
you're talking to a machine.
- Yeah, we'll see if it gets rolled out like cookies.
(all laughing)
A big blurb of text that says,
there may or may not be automated systems
that you interact with on this product.
- Yeah, because they're also like, yeah, yeah.
I think it's almost like, I don't know,
like a classic disclaimer,
because I think the way it's written
probably makes people think more
about like conversational AI,
but I do think this also covers everything else.
And if you use some component
that does some arbitrary predictions in order to,
I don't know, this can go like 20 levels deep,
then you need this disclaimer on it.
And then unfortunately, I think,
and the unfortunate side effect of that will be that,
okay, people are less likely to notice it
because it will have to be on everything.
like, you know, they even really small features
you might wanna have on your website
that do use AI in some form or another.
- It seems totally reasonable,
maybe unnecessary, but certainly reasonable.
But yeah, you're right.
It's gonna be like the cookie notices, you know?
So if you go to say, on Netflix,
and you go to watch a movie,
well, that list I've recommended for you,
do you have to like, okay this?
I'm not sure if I can find it.
- Yeah, or maybe,
Maybe it will just be a Netflix,
and it's like terms and conditions.
When you accept those terms and conditions
that most people probably don't even read,
you will accept that yes,
everything you're interacting with here is AI.
And yeah.
- By the way, here's a very long 20-page document
about how we may or may not use automated systems
in your use of this website.
- Yeah, exactly.
(laughing)
Exactly.
- Have fun.
Let me know how the reading goes.
(laughing)
I said, I thought I got, there was a lot of stuff
that came out of the GDPR that was pretty good.
The little, this website may use cookies.
That to me,
- It's the worst.
- Is the worst.
It's like, do you wanna be able to log in?
Or do you wanna not be able to log in?
Well, I wanna be able to log in.
Okay, we've gotta use cookies.
So I actually got this thing called,
I don't care about cookies as a browser extension.
And if it sees that, it tries to agree to it automatically.
like every side just so to cut down on the cookie, okay.
- This was by no means the intention of the law
just to make it clear to everyone.
- No, I think it's important to bring that up
because also, you know, especially I think, yeah,
from the European perspective, you know,
I'm genuinely a fan of GDPR and then often, yeah,
people go like, "Oh, it's all these cookie pop-ups."
And it's like, yeah, no, that's not GDPR.
- The cookie pop-ups predated the GDPR, didn't it?
It was mainly role.
So some people did it before, but it was deeply rolled out for GDPR
because there's all this compliance.
Now a tip for folks, is a, somebody got sued.
It was Google or Facebook that it was too hard to just, do the least possible.
So now if you're, if you haven't installed this extension, there's
usually a big button that says legitimate interest, and you're going
just press that one is the least amount.
Um, yes.
Does it usually now involve two clicks rather than one?
Yes.
Um, but the whole,
does it, because I think as far as I know, it's also, if you get to a set, if
it offers you to go to a settings page, everything has to be unchecked by default.
So yeah, it's actually quite convenient.
You just go to the button.
That's not except all.
And then you accept whatever, and then you get nothing.
It might be this big and the same color as the page.
So just be like really looking for it.
- You gotta highlight it and see if there's like a shadow.
- Which just talks about,
I don't know if you've talked about this
on the podcast recently,
but I've been reading a lot about dark patterns
and like dark patterns and privacy are like
in a very deep love relationship on the internet of like,
no, you really wanna give us all your data?
You're gonna be so sad if you don't.
- The dark patterns and the lack of privacy.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
At least with the same color foreground and background,
that ties into another compliance thing,
which is accessibility.
And at least if like in the US,
you can get sued for having a not accessible website,
even companies will at least not do this.
Even if it's only,
if they don't care about anyone accessing their website
and all they care about is not getting sued,
you won't have buttons with the same foreground
and background color anymore.
- Yeah, indeed.
And I'm okay with my,
I'm okay with Cookie's little clicker thing,
because I also have like network level tracking blocking.
So, then they say, sure, well, fine,
here's your Facebook cookie.
It's like, no, it is blocked.
So like, anyway, it's my weird setup.
Vincent out in the audience says,
just to mention Rasa, a Python tool
for open source chatbots took the effort
or writing down some ethical principles to good design.
And one of those is that it lists
a conversational assistant should identify itself as one.
- Hi Vincent.
(laughing)
Yeah, no, Raza is definitely,
Raza is a great open source library as well.
We kind of, you know, friends with Spacey.
It's kind of the same ecosystem.
And no, I think it's, yeah,
I think this is a good principle.
Actually, often when I use like a, like a chat,
a bot or whatever, and I'm not sure it's a chat bot,
they're like a lot of, you know, things and ways of,
things you can write to check if it's a human or not,
because they're like, you know, there's certain things
And usually these things are quite bad
at resolving references.
So if you use a pronoun or to refer to something
you previously said or a person or something,
there are a lot of things that often
these things are quite bad at.
And if you vague enough, a human will always get it,
but a machine might not.
So if you--
- Use your text processing ML skills and experience.
- Yeah, because there was a case where I was like,
this person, this agent is so incompetent,
it must be like a machine.
And then it's actually, it would be a pretty good chatbot
because the chatbot passed as an incompetent human,
but no, it turned out it was just an incompetent human.
- Yeah, that's true.
The chatbots are very bad at retaining,
like building up a state of the conversation.
It's like they see the message and then they respond to it.
It's like you ask a question
And then it does, you say, well, what exactly is this about?
Well, I said it was about this above.
So what do you think it's, you know, it's.
- Yeah, I mean, these systems are getting better at this,
but there's just some like, you know,
if you really try to be as vague as possible,
you can like trick them
and then you find out if it's a human or not.
- Yeah, exactly.
So let's see, some more things about the law
is over here, the military.
AI in the military is exempt, so that's not a surprise.
I mean, there's probably a top secret stuff.
How are you going to submit that?
I don't know.
- Yeah, but then it's like, oh, you know,
a lot of the worst things that happen
happen in this context.
So it's like, you know, as a little anecdote,
for example, for a long time,
we've always had an exposure with this policy
that we do not sell to organizations
who are primarily engaged in government, military,
for intelligence national security,
because, and our reasoning for that has always been that,
well, in the free market, you have a lot of other ways
that companies and applications can be regulated
by regulations like this,
but also just by market pressures
and by things just being more public.
All of these things you do not have
if the work is military intelligence
or certain government work.
So we see that as very problematic
because you have absolutely no idea
what the software is used for,
and there's absolutely no way to regulate it ever.
And then we'd say, okay, that's not
what we want to sell our software to.
Like the other use cases, you know,
some government things are fine,
you know, we'd happily sell to the IRS and equivalents,
or, you know, Federal Reserves.
There are a lot of things that are like not terrible
that are government adjacent,
or just a lot of research labs as well, but,
- Yeah. - Yeah, military.
That's quite obvious.
- Yeah.
- Well, and then you think like how many companies
that work on machine learning today
that focus on selling explicitly into the military.
And it's like, well, are they exempt?
Because they're just, you know, basically an exempt,
like is Palantir exempt from this?
I'm very curious. - Oh, interesting.
Right, because, yeah, the law would otherwise apply to them,
but sort of indirectly.
So you're asking about transitive property, basically.
- Yeah, yeah, like, well, it's only in use in military use,
so it's probably okay.
It's probably exempt or whatever.
- Yeah, well, I guess if you can make the case
that it's classified,
that that's probably what companies like that
who have the means,
they would make sure that every project they're taking on
is classified in some way,
and then they get a roundup.
- Yeah, that's probably true.
All right, another thing that I thought was interesting.
So all the stuff we talked about so far
sort of just laying out the details. On the imprecision and subjectivity side, one of
the quotes was, "One area that raised eyebrows is part of the report which reads, 'AI systems
designed or used in a manner that exploits information or prediction about a person or
group of persons in order to target their vulnerabilities or special circumstances,
causing a person to behave or form an opinion or take a decision to their detriment.'"
Yeah, that sounds like a lot of big tech, honestly.
Like a lot of the social networks,
maybe they even suggest,
maybe that's even like Amazon shopping recommendations,
right?
Encourage you to buy something that you don't need
or whatever.
What do you think about that?
- Yeah, I mean, I guess it's quite vague
and it's like, okay, how do you define,
you know, we'd have to wait for like the actual cases
to come up and from making the case that like,
"Oh, I don't know, my wife divorced me because X happened and that was the outcome and it's
clearly that company's fault and then someone can decide whether that's true or not."
Of course, these are not cases that this was designed for or written for, but it is vague
to this extent where like, "Yes, this is probably the illegit case that the judge has to decide
over and maybe the person would win."
Wouldn't it be great if they gave examples?
I didn't want to accept the cookies, so I'm suing under the new law.
Yeah, that made me feel bad.
But I mean, I think some of it is like really, I feel like the conversation here, and I'm
being curious to the opinion on the conversation in the US is around kind of the political
ad manipulation and the amount, let's say, of when we think about topics like disinformation
misinformation, the amount of kind of algorithmic use of, let's say, opinion pieces to kind of push
particular agendas. When I read this, I'm guessing that's like one of the things they had in mind.
I had misinformation and fake news and all that kind of stuff is what brought me to this.
Yeah, and I was also thinking of recommendation systems and like even, I mean, I don't know,
not even to fake news, but like, okay, you can, you know,
manipulate people into, you know, joining certain groups. yeah.
Yeah. Buying things. Yeah.
Yeah. You're a relatively just stable, normal person. Yeah.
And then, then you, you read some posts,
they suggest you join a group three months later, you'll, you know,
you're in the wilderness training with a gun or something like it's just,
It's so easy to send people down these holes, I think.
On a much more relatable note, I would say,
even though I really love YouTube,
one of the sort of sayings,
I think I heard it somewhere,
I don't know where it came from, so I can't attribute it,
but you're never extreme enough for YouTube.
If you watch three YouTube videos on some topic,
let's suppose your washer broke,
and so you need to figure out how does my dishwasher work?
And so you watch several videos to try to fix it,
well, your feed is full of dishwasher stuff.
And if you watch a few more, it's nothing but dishwashers.
There's a lot of other videos besides dishwashers.
So any little, like, it's almost like the butterfly effect,
the chaos theory effect of like,
I washed a little bit this way,
and then, whoosh, you just, you end up down that channel.
- Yeah, and I think like,
one of the interesting things I think about that is,
I've been talking with a few folks at like,
where, you know, a friend's, you know,
family has been kind of like radicalized
around some of the topics that I'd say are very radical online right now.
And they're like, I just don't know how it happens.
And it's kind of like, well, the internet that they're experiencing
is incredibly different than the internet that you're experiencing.
And so it's kind of like, when we think about lockdown or where the
internet is going to be like a major source of people's life, and then
their internet is just a completely different experience than yours based
off of some related search terms across maybe four or five different sites that
have been linked via cookies or other types of information.
I mean, it's like, yeah, you can say, well, I have this experience, but if your
entire world online was different, maybe you wouldn't have the same experience.
I think it would be very hard to say what, how you would think and feel if your
entire information experience was completely different.
Don't make me think about weird alternate realities of myself.
[LAUGHTER]
What if just one decision was made differently?
What world would you be in?
It could be really different, honestly.
No, I mean, you wouldn't even necessarily know.
But I think that's also kind of a problem.
In that sense, I do like that it's relatively vague.
And I think laws can be vague because you don't
know what's going to happen.
And you might have people who are in a situation
where they don't necessarily feel like, oh, I've
been tricked or treated badly here.
and maybe the outcomes of their behavior are bad,
but maybe what the platform did wasn't necessarily illegal.
That's also the problem.
It's like a lot of the content you can watch on YouTube
is legal and it's your right as a free citizen,
especially in the US where people take this
even more seriously to some degree than people in Europe.
You can watch anti-vax videos all day
and that's your right.
and nobody can keep you from that.
- It's not good for you, you can do it.
- No, it's not good for you, but you can.
And so otherwise I think, yeah,
with terms that are maybe less vague in that respect,
it would be much harder to actually go after cases
where yes, it's clearly, the platform is clearly to blame
or the platform should be regulated,
which obviously it's very clear
that this is what they had in mind.
- Right.
I really like the part here that's like exploit information, target
vulnerabilities, because it's kind of like, okay, I know these, you know, I
mean, what we saw with Cambridge Analytica and then a bunch of the targeted
stuff after that was like, we can figure out exactly how to target undecided
voters of these different racial groups in these counties, and we can like feed
them as many Facebook ads as possible.
And it's just like, wow.
Okay.
I don't think people realize that that was so easy to put together and do given
like a fairly small amount of information about a person.
So, I mean, and, and it's not, it's not personal information, right.
Because usually it's what we would call, you know, profiles of individuals.
So you fit a profile because, you know, you like these three brands on Facebook
and you live in these districts and you're this age and this race or you report this race
or we can infer your race because of these other things that you've liked.
It means, you know, it adds a lot of information that I don't think most people know that,
you know, that you can get that specific in the advertising world.
Yeah.
How do you ladies feel about the whole flock thing?
Oh, yeah.
Chrome was doing to replace cookies.
I mean, we wouldn't even have to have those little buttons
or my add-in.
It'd be a good world.
(laughing)
- So I think that there's been a lot of important writing
about flocks and vulnerabilities in the design.
- Sorry, if they don't know.
- Yeah, I'm sorry.
- Federated learning of cohorts.
- Yeah, yeah, yeah.
And federated learning is essentially a tool that can be privacy preserving, but doesn't have to be.
And it basically means that the data stays on device and the things that we send to a centralized location or several centralized location are usually gradient updates.
So these are small updates to the model.
The model is then shared amongst participants and the process repeats.
The exact design of how Phlox was rolled out and is rolled out is, I think, not fully clear.
And in general, I'm a fan of some parts of federated learning, but there's a lot of loopholes in Phlox design that would still involve the ability for people to both reverse engineer the models, but also to fingerprint people.
So to take your cohort plus your browser fingerprint, you combine the two,
it becomes fairly easy to re-identify individuals.
Yeah, and I think the more underlying problem is also that, well, you know,
are you going to trust something that comes out of Google that's marketed as like,
"Oh, it will like, you know, preserve your privacy and be like, really great for you and the internet."
And I mean, that's just like screens of like red flags.
It feels like we've been presented a false dichotomy.
We could either have this creepy cookie world
or because we must still have tracking
or we could have this flock.
It's like, well, or we could just not have tracking.
Like that's also a possible future.
We don't have to have tracking
and here's a better tracking mechanism.
We just have not have tracking.
How about that?
- I was reading a wonderful article about IE6.
Okay, I don't know.
- Wow, that's almost a history.
- Young children, I'm sorry, I'm sorry
that I'm bringing up ancient history,
but there was a browser once
and it was called Internet Explorer 6.
It was the bane of every web developer's existence
for a long time.
But one thing that I didn't know about it until recently
is it actually had privacy standards built into the browser.
You could set up certain privacy preferences
and it would like block cookies and websites
and stuff for you automatically.
- Way ahead of its time.
And there was this whole standard called P3P
that with the WC3 put together around like,
everybody's gonna have your local stored privacy preferences
and then when you browse the web,
it's just gonna automatically block stuff and all this stuff
and I was like, we figured this out during IE6,
what happened?
So yeah, just let you know, a little bit of history.
Look up P3P, so yeah.
- Absolutely, all right.
I guess to close out the flock thing,
The thing that scares me about this is if I really wanted to, I could open up a private
window and I could go, I could even potentially fire up a VPN on a different location and
go visit a place.
And when I show up there, no matter how creepy tracking that place happens to be, I am basically
an unknown to that location.
Whereas this stuff, if your browser constantly puts you into this category, well, you show
up already in that category.
There's really no way to sort of have a fresh start, I guess.
All right, so one thing, Ines, maybe you could speak to this since you're right in the middle of it, is
they talk about how one of the things that's not mentioned in here is,
you know, how does it, basically they say the regulation does little to incentivize or support EU innovation and entrepreneurship in this space.
There's nothing in here in this law that specifically is to promote EU-based ML companies.
I mean, I guess, I think also even...
Does it even belong there or is it okay?
I mean, I don't know. I was actually, I was a bit confused by that.
It does remind me of like, well, in general, for a long time, a lot of people have said,
"Oh, the EU is like a bad place for startups."
I think actually regulation is a big part of that, which is sort of, you know,
full circle, like a lot of people find that, well, the EU is more difficult.
You have to stick to all of these rules and people actually enforce them and
you're less free and you can't do whatever the fuck you want.
So you should go to the US where people are a bit more like chill.
And it's a bit more common to like, I don't know, ask for forgiveness later.
And just like, so I think, I think that is definitely kind of
a mentality that people have.
So I'm like, I'm not sure, honestly, I'm not sure what like,
incentivizing EU entrepreneurship could be.
I mean, for me personally, it was a very conscious decision for us to start a company in Berlin
and the EU was like a big part in that.
I know that maybe I'm not the typical entrepreneur and we're doing things quite differently with our company as well.
We're not like your typical startup, but being in the EU was actually very attractive to us.
And even recently, as we sold some shares in the company, it was incredibly important to us to stay a German company and be a company paying taxes to the country that we actually incorporated in and not just become a US company.
But I know that's not necessarily true for everyone.
But are you maximizing shareholder value?
No, just kidding.
That leads to so many wrongs.
this short, short sighted thinking. I think that's, that's great that you
capitalism's gonna capitalism, like, you know, and then I think that as like,
you know, someone who is also participating in capitalism. Sure. And
yeah, it's like, I don't know, I do think, you know, Europe is becoming
more attractive as a location for companies, I think Berlin is becoming
more attractive as a location to be based in and start a company. But it is
also true that there are a lot of, I think, more general things that make it
harder to actually run a business here, especially if you directly compare it to
the US and yes, a lot of that is also the bureaucracy.
It is a lot of the structures not being as developed.
It's also, yeah, if you are looking to get investment in your company, it
often makes a lot more sense to look in the US for that, which then causes
other difficulties, if you're, you know, especially a young
company and you don't, you know, you can't have as many months,
like in our case, we could be like, okay, here's what we want
to do. If you're not in that position, you can't do that. And
so I, like, I agree with like the problems here, but I don't
know how this law and this proposal.
What was it supposed to do? Right?
Yeah, I mean, say, oh, you're sort of you're exempt from some
of the things if you are like, I don't know, a startup coming to the EU.
Here's how it advantages the EU. All companies that are not EU-based have to follow this
law and no rules for the EU. That wouldn't be with the principles of it.
Yeah, if you're a startup or a company moving to the EU, you don't only have to follow half
of these things and then everyone's back in, I don't know, having their mailbox companies
And this also surprises me a little bit, is that there's nothing in here about climate change and model training and sort of the cost of operation of these things.
Does that surprise you? Would it belong here? What do you all think?
nothing in here about climate change and model training
and sort of the cost of operation of these things.
Does that surprise you?
Would it belong here?
What do you all think?
- I mean, is it a high risk?
This is my ask.
It's like when I saw it wasn't in there at all,
not even lightly mentioned, I was like,
how many like carbon emissions do we have to go
until it's high risk. But evidently, the thinking of human side of high risk,
actually, climate change is also humans.
I direct high risk.
When is the AI gonna kill me eventually? Or tomorrow?
Is it arms or is it just
is it like just 30 years from now when it floods or something? Yeah, yeah.
So yeah, I think like it was I was definitely curious to see that they didn't
included despite all of the kind of work here from the Greens and other parties like them
for climate change awareness when we talk about what is a risk, right? Obviously,
there's a huge risk for the entire world, right? Yeah. Yeah. I guess it also seems like maybe it
was too difficult to implement in terms of how do we police that? Would this then imply, I don't
I don't know, would AWS have to report to the EU
about who's using what compute?
And, or I don't know,
report if the compute exceeds a certain limit
so that then you can be audited.
Like these could all be potential implications,
which again, then tie into other privacy concerns
because yeah, I wouldn't necessarily want AWS
to snoop around my compute,
Maybe they have to, if the EU needs it.
Like, wait a minute, we just had to reveal that this company did $2 million worth of GPU training,
and we thought they were just a little small company.
What's going on, right?
Like some, something like that could come out.
But you know, I don't know, something I had in mind is maybe if you create ML models for European citizens,
those models must be trained with renewable energy or something to that effect, right?
that you don't have to report it, but that has to be the case.
I don't know.
Yeah.
But I mean, I don't know.
It's interesting.
It's an interesting question because the thing is, if you had like, you know,
too many restrictions around this, this would encourage people to like, I don't
know, train less, which then in turn is quite bad, I think actually what's quite
important is that like, if you are developing these systems, you should
train, you know, you should care about like what you're training and you
shouldn't like, you know, constantly train these large language models for no
reason just so you can say, Oh, look at my, my model that's bigger than yours.
But it is on a smaller scale, it's very important to keep training your
model, to keep collecting data and to keep improving it and to also train
models that are really specific for your problems and not just find something
that you download off the internet or that, you know, someone gives you by
an API that kind of, sort of does what you do and then you're like, ah, that's
good enough because that's how you end up with a lot more problems, like being
- Right. - To like creating data
and being able to train a system
for your really, really specific use case.
That's an advantage that's not like, you know,
a disadvantage that you're trying to avoid.
- That's a really good point.
- Yeah.
- It could be absolutely in contrast
with some of the other things.
Like it has to be fair,
but if it uses too much training,
that's gonna go to the other one.
So let's do less trainings.
It's kind of close enough to be unfair, right?
Yeah, and then that encourages people to use, I don't know,
just like some arbitrary API that they can find,
which again is also, you know, not great or like,
you know, I don't know, I think the bigger takeaway
or the very important takeaway
from these really large language models,
in my opinion, it's not necessarily that like,
whoa, if we just make it bigger and bigger,
we can get a system that then is pretty good
at pretty much everything considering
it's never learned anything about any of these things.
I think the takeaway, no, and I think that many people
are still seeing it this way.
And I think the more reasonable takeaway is,
if a model that was just trained on like tons of texts
can do pretty good things with stuff
it's never seen before,
how well could a much smaller, more specific system do
if we actually trained it on maybe a small subset
of only what we wanna do, and that will be more efficient.
And I think people, we should stop like hoping
there'll be one model that can magically do, I don't know, your arbitrary accounting task and also
decide whether Michael should get a mortgage or not. I think that's kind of a weird idea. It's
like you want a specific system. That requires training. I think training is good.
Yeah. Put a good word in with the mortgage AI for me, will you?
I think you want to have a quick comment on this and maybe we should wrap it up after that.
Yeah, I mean, I guess I was just going to reference the opportunity and risks of foundation models,
which I think touches on some of these things. So it's this mega paper, and it's exactly,
well, some of the sections are about exactly this problem of, like, why do we believe that we need
to have these foundational models or these large, extremely large, even larger than the last largest
models to do all of the things when it also has all these other implications,
environmental factors being one of them, because obviously when you train one of these models,
it's like driving your car around for like 10 years or something like this. So, you know,
there's big implications and I think the point of can you build a smaller targeted model to do the
same thing and then the other point of if we need these big models, what are their ways for us to
hook in and do small bits of training rather than to retrain from the start from the very beginning.
I mean, these are like the hard problems that I think need solving, maybe not always
building a better recommendation machine. So yeah, if you're looking for a problem,
solve some of these problems. Yeah, fantastic. This is a big article. The PDF is published.
people can check it out. We'll link to it in the show notes.
Yeah, also actually on the foundation, sorry, no, I just wanted to say,
sorry, I've been referring to these as language models. I've been trying to
train myself to use the more explicit term,
because I think foundation models are a much better way
to express this. And I'm so happy this term was introduced, because it finally
solves a lot of these problems of everything
being a model that I think causes a lot of confusion
when talking about machine learning. Yeah, excellent.
whoops, moving around.
Haley in the audience asked, what does climate change
have to do with this?
The reason I brought it up, one, is
because Europe seems to be leading at least
in the consensus side of things trying
to address climate change.
I feel like there's a lot of citizens there
where it's on their mind, and they
want the government to do something about it and stuff.
The governments do a lot there.
So as a law, I thought maybe it would touch on that.
because Catherine, you pointed out some crazy number.
You want to like just reemphasize some of the cost
of some of these changes.
It's not just like, oh, well,
it's like leaving a few lights on.
It's a lot.
- No, it's just huge.
Yeah, and they keep getting bigger.
I forget who released the newest one.
I don't know if you remember Ines,
but it's like, they keep getting bigger and bigger.
So some of these have like billions and billions
and billions of parameters.
They sometimes have extremely large amounts of data,
either as external reference or in the model itself.
And yeah, Timnit Gebru's paper that essentially she
was basically fired from Google for researching was around--
or one of the parts of the paper was
around how much carbon emissions come
from training these models.
They've only gotten bigger since that paper.
And yeah, I may have the statistic wrong,
but it is almost as bad as driving a car around,
with the motor on every day,
with your normal commute for like 10 plus years
to just train one model.
And it's really absurd because some of these models
are just training to prove that we can train them.
And so it's like, what?
- Yeah, and often it's not,
the artifact isn't even as useful where it's like,
okay, with a lot of the bird models, we can at least,
I think it's good that we just reuse these weights.
I think often in practice that's what's done. You take some of these weights that someone else has
trained or use these embeddings and then you train something else on top of that.
Yeah or even just like you use these embeddings to initialize your model and then you train
different components using these embeddings and that is efficient. But it also means that
"Okay, we're kind of stuck with a lot of these artifacts
"that are getting stale all the time."
- Yeah, yeah, so the comment in the audience was,
"I could train one on my laptop and use electricity."
Like, true, but it's like 50,000 laptops,
or I mean, it's a much--
- I mean, it's a lot more, exactly.
No, and I think training on a laptop is great.
Like, for example, we recently did some work
to be able to hook into the Accelerate library
on the new M1 MacBooks,
which make things a lot faster in spacey.
And that was quite cool to see.
And we want to do a bit more there because like,
oh, you can really, you know,
if we optimize this further,
you can actually train a model on your MacBook.
And this can be really accurate
and you don't necessarily need like all this computer power.
And yep, training on laptop is good.
- It is, and you can do it.
But a lot of the ones that we're actually talking about
use these huge, huge modules that take a lot.
So you can say you don't really care about climate change
or whatever, but if you do, the ML training side
has a pretty significant impact.
And I was unsure whether or not to see it,
but I guess it makes sense that it's not there.
Who knows?
It's also-- they said this is a foundation for potentially
future AI laws in Europe.
Yeah, and I also appreciate that, OK, they didn't want to tie
everything together. Like I can't even I think from a political perspective, if you are proposing
this pretty bold framework for regulation, tying it into too many other topics can easily, I don't
know, distract from like the core point that they want to make. So I think it might have actually
been like a, you know, strategic decision. - Yep, absolutely. All right, ladies, this has
been a fantastic conversation. I've learned a lot and really enjoyed having you here. Now,
Now, before we get out of here,
maybe since there's two of you and we're sort of over time,
I'll just ask you one question instead of the two.
So if you're gonna write some Python code,
what editor are you using these days?
Catherine, you go first.
- I am still in Vim.
Am I old?
I think I'm old.
(laughing)
- Oh, you're classic, come on.
- Classic model.
(laughing)
- No, I'm quite boring, Visual Studio Code.
I've been using that for years.
It's pretty nice.
I think it's probably the most common answer you get
and it's quite, yeah.
- It certainly lies--
- I mean, actually using Vim is a lot edgier and cooler.
I wish, you know, even for, maybe for that reason alone,
I should just like, you know, switch to that.
- She edits code without even a window.
It just appears on this black surface.
- (laughs) I mean, my co-founder, he programs that way
and I'm like, okay, if it makes you happy.
- Yeah, yeah, yeah, you do you.
(laughing)
- Some people just like to suffer, that's okay.
- Oh, damn.
(laughing)
- All right. - No, sorry.
No offense, like, I don't know,
this was a joke, no offense to anyone
who's programming in Vim.
I know lots of great people who do that.
I don't wanna get any hate messages.
(laughing)
- All right, all right, well, Catherine Ines,
thanks for coming back on the show
and sharing your thoughts here.
- Yeah, thanks for having me.
Thanks Rose!